1. What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

- .git file is created in repo
- no commit is made
- all files in repo are listed untracked

2. How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area is different because it serves as a holding ground for files from the WD before they get committed to the repo.
The staging area offers a very important value as it make the user commit only what it wants to.

3. How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

By constantly checking the changes made in the staging area using git diff and git diff --staged. You can ensure that the changes to be committed are only per logical changes

4. What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

- while making a long term significant change to the document (e.g different language versions, a new mode, experimental changes)
Branches help by giving you the exact state of the repository but as a working copy and when the changes are tested and verified, could be merged back with the main branch (master)

5. How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

By providing details of commits and their parents, its easier for user to know at what state the repo is and what level was checked out

6. What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

Merging branch 2 into branch 1, makes branch 1 the master branch and adds all the commits in branch 2 into branch 1 with the already existing commits in branch 1.
We represent it in a diagram in order to get a better clearer representation of the branches and commits and commit checkouts that are alone.

7. What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Auto merging is done where there are no conflicting changes in same file, manual merging is done to resolve conflicts in file changes.